In Microsoft 365 organizations with mailboxes in Exchange Online or standalone Exchange Online Protection (EOP) organizations without Exchange Online mailboxes, email messages are automatically protected against malware by EOP. Some of the major categories of malware are:

1. Viruses that infect other programs and data, and spread through your computer or network looking for programs to infect.
2. Spyware that gathers your personal information, such as sign-in information and personal data, and sends it back to its author.
3. Ransomware that encrypts your data and demands payment to decrypt it. Anti-malware software doesn't help you decrypt encrypted files, but it can detect the malware payload that's associated with the ransomware.

EOP offers _multi-layered malware protection_ that's designed to catch all known malware in Windows, Linux, and Mac that travels into or out of your organization. The following options help provide anti-malware protection:

1.** Layered defenses against malware**: Multiple anti-malware _scan engines_ help protect against both **known** and **unknown** threats. These engines include powerful heuristic detection to provide protection even during the early stages of a malware outbreak. This multi-engine approach has been shown to provide significantly more protection than using just one anti-malware engine.

2. **Real-time threat response**: During some outbreaks, the anti-malware team may have enough information about a virus or other form of malware to write sophisticated policy rules that detect the threat, even before a definition is available from any of the scan engines used by the service. These rules are published to the global network every 2 hours to provide your organization with an extra layer of protection against attacks.

3. **Fast anti-malware definition deployment**: The anti-malware team maintains close relationships with partners who develop anti-malware engines. As a result, the service can receive and integrate malware definitions and patches before they're publicly released. Our connection with these partners often allows us to develop our own remedies as well. The service checks for updated definitions for all anti-malware engines every hour.

In EOP, messages that are found to contain malware in any attachments are quarantined. Whether the recipients can view or otherwise interact with the quarantined messages is controlled by quarantine policies. By default, messages that were quarantined due to malware can only be viewed and released by admins.

## what is AADSessionId
AADSessionId stands for _Azure Active Directory Session ID_. It is a unique identifier that is assigned to a user session in Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) when they sign in to access cloud-based resources such as** Office 365, OneDrive, or SharePoint**. The AADSessionId can be used to track user activity, troubleshoot issues, and audit logins and access to cloud services. It is typically included in audit logs and other monitoring data generated by Azure AD and related cloud services.

## log content

- "AppAccessContext": Information related to the user's session, including the AADSessionId, CorrelationId, TokenIssuedAtTime, and UniqueTokenId.
- "ClientIP": The IP address of the client that triggered the event.
- "CorrelationId": The CorrelationId of the event.
- "CreationTime": The time when the event was created.
- "EventSource": The source of the event, which in this case is SharePoint.

Organizations use Microsoft SharePoint to create websites. You can use it as a secure place to store, organize, share, and access information from any device. All you need is a web browser

- "FileSyncBytesCommitted": The number of bytes committed during file sync.
- "HighPriorityMediaProcessing": Indicates whether high priority media processing is enabled or not.
- "Id": The ID of the event.
- "ImplicitShare": Indicates whether the share was implicit or not.
- "IsManagedDevice": Indicates whether the device is managed or not.
- "ItemType": The type of the item being operated on, which in this case is a file.
- "ListBaseType": The base type of the list, which in this case is a document library.
- "ListId": The ID of the list.
- "ListItemUniqueId": The unique ID of the list item.
- "ListServerTemplate": The server template of the list, which in this case is 700.
- "MachineDomainInfo": Information related to the machine domain.
- "MachineId": The ID of the machine.
- "ObjectId": The ID of the object being operated on, which in this case is a file.
- "Operation": The type of operation being performed, which in this case is FileSyncUploadedFull.
- "OrganizationId": The ID of the organization.
- "RecordType": The type of record being created, which in this case is 6.
- "ServerHostName": The hostname of the server.
- "Site": The ID of the site.
- "SiteUrl": The URL of the site.
- "SourceFileExtension": The file extension of the source file.
- "SourceFileName": The name of the source file.
- "SourceRelativeUrl": The relative URL of the source file.
- "TenantId": The ID of the tenant.
- "UserAgent": The user agent of the client that triggered the event.
- "UserId": The ID of the user who triggered the event.
- "UserKey": The key of the user who triggered the event.
- "UserType": The type of user, which in this case is 0.
- "Version": The version of the event.
- "WebId": The ID of the web.
- "Workload": The workload of the event, which in this case is OneDrive.
- "phCustId": The customer ID.
